.TH chgrp 1 "2021-08-15"

.SH NAME
chgrp - change the file group ownership

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY chgrp
.OP -h
.I group
.I file...
.YS

.SY chgrp
.B -R
.OP -H\fR|\fB-L\fR|\fB-P
.I group
.I file...
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I
chgrp
utility sets the group ID of the file named by each
.I file
operand to the group ID specified by the
.I group
operand.
If the option
.B -R
was used, the
.I chgrp
utility changes the file group ownership of directory trees.

.SH OPTIONS
.B -R
.RE
.RS 5
Recursively change file group IDs.
.RE
.B -h
.RE
.RS 5
If a file is of type symbolic link, the
.I chgrp
utility tries to change the ownership of the link.
.RE
.B -H
.RE
.RS 5
If the
.B -R
option is specified and a symbolic link referencing a directory is specified on the command line,
.I chgrp
changes the group ID of the directory referenced by the symbolic link
and all files in the file hierarchy below it.
.RE
.B -L
.RE
.RS 5
If the
.B -R
option is specified and a symbolic link referencing a directory is specified on the command line
or encountered during traversal of a file hierarchy,
.I chgrp
changes the group ID of the directory referenced by the symbolic link
and all files in the file hierarchy below it.
.RE
.B -P
.RE
.RS 5
If the
.B -R
option is specified and a symbolic link referencing a directory is specified on the command line
or encountered during traversal of a file hierarchy,
.I chgrp
changes the group ID of the symbolic link.

.SH OPERANDS
The following operands are supported:
.PP
.I group
.RE
.RS 5
A group ID to be assigned to \fIfile\fR.
.RE
.I file
.RE
.RS 5
A pathname of a file whose user ID is to be modified.
