.TH cp 1 "2021-04-10"

.SH NAME
cp - copy files

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY cp
.OP -Pfip
.I source_file
.I target_file
.YS

.SY cp
.OP -Pfip
.I source_file...
.I target
.YS

.SY cp
.B -R
.OP -H\fR|\fB-L\fR|\fB-P
.OP -fip
.I source_file...
.I target
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I cp
utility is used to copy files and directory structures.

.SH OPTIONS
.B -f
.RE
.RS 5
If a file descriptor for a destination file cannot be obtained,
attempt to unlink the destination file and proceed.
.RE
.B -i
.RE
.RS 5
Write a prompt to standard error before copying to any existing non-directory destination file.
If the response from the standard input is affirmative, the copy will be attempted; otherwise it won't.
.RE
.B -R
.RE
.RS 5
Copy directory structures.
.RE
.B -H
.RE
.RS 5
Take actions based on the type and contents of the file referenced by any symbolic link specified as a
.I source_file
operand.
.RE
.B -L
.RE
.RS 5
Take actions based on the type and contents of the file referenced by any symbolic link specified as a
.I source_file
operand or any symbolic link encountered during traversal of a directory structure.
.RE
.B -P
.RE
.RS 5
Take actions on any symbolic link specified as a
.I source_file
operand or any symbolic link encountered during traversal of a directory structure.
.RE
.B -p
.RE
.RS 5
(Currently unimplemented)
.PP
If none of the \fB-H\fR, \fB-L\fR, \fB-P\fR is specified, the
.I cp
utility behaves as if
.B -H
was specified.

.SH OPERANDS
The following operands are supported:
.PP
.I source_file
.RE
.RS 5
A pathname of a file to be copied.
.RE
.I target_file
.RE
.RS 5
A pathname of an existing or non-existing file, used for the output when a single file is copied.
.RE
.I target
.RE
.RS 5
A pathname of a directory to contain the copied files.

.SH STDIN
The standard input is used to read an input line in response to each prompt.

.SH STDOUT
Not used.

.SH STDERR
A prompt is written to standard error if the
.B -i
option was specified.
The standard error is also being used for diagnostic messages.

.SH INPUT FILES
The input files may be of any type.

.SH OUTPUT FILES
The output files may be of any type.

.SH EXIT STATUS
The following exit values are returned:
.PP
0
.RE
.RS 5
Successfull completion.
.RE
>0
.RE
.RS 5
An error occured.
