.TH head 1 "2021-03-11"

.SH NAME
head - copy the first part of files

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY head
.OP -n number
.OP file...
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I
head
utility copies its input files to the standard output,
ending the output for each file at a designated point.
.PP
Copying ends at the point in each input file indicated by the
.B
-n
.I
number
option.
The option-argument
.I
number
is measured in units of lines.

.SH OPTIONS
.B
-n
.I
number
.RE
.RS 5
The first
.I
number
lines of each input file will be copied to standard output.
The
.I
number
option-argument has to be a positive decimal integer.
.PP
When a file contains less than
.I
number
lines, it is copied to standard output entirely.
.PP
If no options are specified,
.I
head
acts if
.B
-n 10
has been specified.

.SH OPERANDS
The following operand is supported:
.PP
.I
file
.RE
.RS 5
A pathname of an input file. If no
.I
file
operands are specified, the standard input is being used. If a
.I
file
is '-', the
.I
head
utility reads from the standard input.

.SH STDIN
The standard input is being used if no
.I
file
operands have been specified, or if a
.I
file
operand is '-'.
See INPUT FILES section.

.SH STDOUT
The standard output contains the sequence of bytes read from the input files.

.SH STDERR
The standard error is being used for diagnostic messages.

.SH INPUT FILES
The input files can be of any type.

.SH OUTPUT FILES
None.

.SH EXIT STATUS
The following exit values are returned:
.PP
0
.RE
.RS 5
All input files were output successfully.
.RE
>0
.RE
.RS 5
An error occured.
