.TH test 1 "2021-09-03"

.SH NAME
test - evaluate expression

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY test
.I expression
.YS

.SY test
.YS

.SY [
.I expression
.B ]
.YS

.SY [
.B ]
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I test
utility evaluates the
.I expression
and indicates the result of the evaluation by its exit status.

.SH OPTIONS
.B -b
.I pathname
.RE
.RS 5
True if
.I pathname
resolves to an existing block special file.
.RE
.B -c
.I pathname
.RE
.RS 5
True if
.I pathname
resolves to an exisiting character special file.
.RE
.B -d
.I pathname
.RE
.RS 5
True if
.I pathname
resolves to an existing directory.
.RE
.B -e
.I pathname
.RE
.RS 5
True if
.I pathname
resolves to an existing directory entry.
.RE
.B -f
.I pathname
.RE
.RS 5
True if
.I pathname
resolves to an existing regular file.
.RE
.B -g
.I pathname
.RE
.RS 5
True if
.I pathname
resolves to an existing file that has its set-group-ID flag set.
.RE
.B -h
.I pathname
.RE
.RS 5
True if
.I pathname
resolves to an existing symbolic link.
.RE
.B .L
.I pathname
.RE
.RS 5
True if
.I pathname
resolves to an existing symbolic link.
.RE
.B -n
.I string
.RE
.RS 5
True if the length of
.I string
is non-zero.
.RE
.B -p
.I pathname
.RE
.RS 5
True if
.I pathname
resolves to an existing FIFO.
.RE
.B -r
.I pathname
.RE
.RS 5
True if
.I pathname
resolves to an existing file for which permission to read the file will be granted.
.RE
.B -S
.I pathname
.RE
.RS 5
True if
.I pathname
resolves to an existing socket.
.RE
.B -s
.I pathname
.RE
.RS 5
True if
.I pathname
resolves to an existing file that has a size greater than zero.
.RE
.B -t
.I file_descriptor
.RE
.RS 5
True if
.I file_descriptor
is open and associated with a terminal.
.RE
.B -u
.I pathname
.RE
.RS 5
True if
.I pathname
is resolved to an existing file that has its set-user-ID flag set.
.RE
.B -w
.I pathname
.RE
.RS 5
True if
.I pathname
resolves to an existing file for which permission to write to the file will be granted.
.RE
.B -x
.I pathname
.RE
.RS 5
True if
.I pathname
resolves to an existing file for which permission to execute the file (or search it, if it is a directory) will be granted.
.RE
.B -z
.I string
.RE
.RS 5
True if the length of
.I string
is zero.
.RE
.I string
.RE
.RS 5
True if the length of
.I string
is non-zero.
.RE
.I s1
.B =
.I s2
.RE
.RS 5
True if strings
.I s1
and
.I s2
are identical.
.RE
.I s1
.B !=
.I s2
.RE
.RS 5
True if strings
.I s1
and
.I s2
are not identical.
.RE
.I n1
.B -eq
.I n2
.RE
.RS 5
True if the integers
.I n1
and
.I n2
are algebraically equal.
.RE
.I n1
.B -ne
.I n2
.RE
.RS 5
True if the integers
.I n1
and
.I n2
are not algebraically equal.
.RE
.I n1
.B -gt
.I n2
.RE
.RS 5
True if the integer
.I n1
is algebraically greater than the integer
.I n2\fR.
.RE
.I n1
.B -ge
.I n2
.RE
.RS 5
True if the integer
.I n1
is algebraically greater than or equal to the integer
.I n2\fR.
.RE
.I n1
.B -lt
.I n2
.RE
.RS 5
True if the integer
.I n1
is algebraically less than the integer
.I n2\fR.
.RE
.I n1
.B -le
.I n2
.RE
.RS 5
True if the integer
.I n1
is algebraically less than or equal to the integer
.I n2\fR.
.RE
.I expr1
.B -a
.I expr2
.RE
.RS 5
True if both expressions
.I expr1
and
.I expr2
are true.
.RE
.I expr1
.B -o
.I expr2
.RE
.RS 5
True if at least one of the expressions
.I expr1
and
.I expr2
is true.
.RE
.B !
.I expression
.RE
.RS 5
True if the
.I expression
is false.
.RE
.B (
.I expression
.B )
.RE
.RS 5
True if the
.I expression
is true.

.SH EXIT STATUS
0
.RE
.RS 5
.I expression
evaluated to true.
.RE
1
.RE
.RS 5
.I expression
evaluated to false or
.I expression
was missing.
.RE
>1
.RE
.RS 5
An error occured.

.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
.br
Copyright \(co 2021 Benjamin Stürz
.br
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software; you are free to change and redistribute it.
.br
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
